Update README.md (#3)
astronomer/deploy-action: README.md

> # Deploy Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploy to Astro
```
Looking at the [GitHub Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace?category=deployment&query=sort%3Apopularity-desc&type=actions&verification=), this seems to be the most common naming format for Deployment actions.

> You use Deploy Action to create CI/CD pipelines that automate the deployment of code changes to a Deployment. For more information about Astro CI/CD workflows, see [Automate code deploys with CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd).

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
This action deploys code from your GitHub repository to an Astro Deployment. It runs whenever you commit to your repository's main branch. For more information about Astro CI/CD workflows, see [Automate code deploys with CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd).
```

> This action deploys code from your GitHub repository to an Astro Deployment. It runs as a step within a github workflow file. For more information about Astro CI/CD workflows, see [Automate code deploys with CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd).

Reviewer 2: @sunkickr I sort of re-wrote this intro... I just want to make sure that:

- We're taking the space to define Astro as a product, and at least point folks in the right direction to learn more
- Make benefits of this action clear, especially for Airflow users who don't use Astro (I suspect more of those users will land here)
- Makes prerequisites clear
- Be clear about "how to use this" in the context of our docs

> This action deploys code from your GitHub repository to an Astro Deployment. It runs as a step within a github workflow file. For more information about Astro CI/CD workflows, see [Automate code deploys with CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd).

Author: @paolaperaza I noticed the following issues with your new copy:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/216623009-7e2b66e8-148d-41f1-aec5-aad6dea0444d.png)
 
This should be updated to: _Automate code deployment to Astro when you merge changes to a branch in your repository_.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/216623822-07188b82-1317-4462-889c-10196a299fc5.png)

This text should be updated to: _Runs `astro deploy --dags` if the commit includes DAG code changes_ and _Runs `astro deploy` if the commit includes project configuration changes_

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/216624739-5738434d-9712-4f0f-936d-7ba3eb4e2dfa.png)

The convention appears to be _GitHub Actions secrets_. See [GitHub Actions Secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/secrets?apiVersion=2022-11-28).

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/216625161-800131c7-72ed-4a75-b425-eac33f0175b2.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/216625208-e9d60108-aaf9-49fa-935f-4dc7264f125c.png)

> This action deploys code from your GitHub repository to an Astro Deployment. It runs whenever you commit to your repository's main branch. For more information about Astro CI/CD workflows, see [Automate code deploys with CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd).

Reviewer 3: It doesn't necessarily run whenever you commit to your repository's main branch. This is up to how you set up your workflow

> This action can be used only to deploy code from `main` or an equivalent branch. To configure a CI/CD pipeline for multiple branches, see [Astronomer documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multiple%20branch#github-actions-dag-based-deploy). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This action can be used only to deploy code to deploy code to Astro Deployments. This README contains exmaples on how to use it to deploy code when changes are made to a main branch. To configure a CI/CD pipeline for multiple branches, see [Astronomer documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multiple%20branch#github-actions-dag-based-deploy). 
```

> This action can be used only to deploy code to deploy code to Astro Deployments. This README contains exmaples on how to use it to deploy code when changes are made to a main branch. To configure a CI/CD pipeline for multiple branches, see [Astronomer documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multiple%20branch#github-actions-dag-based-deploy). 

Author: ```suggestion
This action can only be used to deploy code to Astro Deployments. This README includes examples of how you can use the action to deploy code when changes are made to a main branch. To configure a CI/CD pipeline for multiple branches, see [Astronomer documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multiple%20branch#github-actions-dag-based-deploy). 
```

> Deploy Action should only be used in a GitHub Actions workflow that runs when code is merged into a `main` or an equivalent branch. You can use the Deploy Action with DAG-only deploys activated or deactivated. When DAG-only deploys are activated, an image deploy is not completed when only the files in the `/dags` folder change. For more information about DAG-only deploys, see [Deploy DAGs only](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-code#deploy-dags-only).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action can be used only to deploy code from `main` or an equivalent branch. To configure a CI/CD pipeline for multiple branches, see [Astronomer documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multiple%20branch#github-actions-dag-based-deploy). 

You can use the Deploy Action with DAG-only deploys activated or deactivated. When DAG-only deploys are activated, the action does not rebuild and deploy your image when your commit only includes changes to the `/dags` folder. For more information about DAG-only deploys, see [Deploy DAGs only](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-code#deploy-dags-only).
```

> The following is the workflow for Deploy Action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The action completes the following steps whenever you commit to your main branch:

```

> The following is the workflow for the custom GitHub Deploy Action:

Author: ```suggestion
The following is the workflow for Deploy Action:
```

> The action completes the following steps whenever you commit to your main branch:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The action completes the following steps whenever your CI/CD pipeline is triggered:
```

> - Your current repository is checked out
> - It is determined if only DAG code changed
> - Your Astro project is built into an image when you change files outside the `/dags` folder
> - Optional. Your DAG code is parsed or tested with Pytest
> - Your image is pushed to the Astro image registry if you changed files outside the `/dags` folder
> - Your image is deployed to your Deployment if you changed files outside the `/dags` folder
> - Your `dags/` folder is deployed to your Deployment if you changed files inside the `/dags` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check out your repository.
- Check whether your commit only changed DAG code.
- Optional. Test DAG code with pytest.
- If the commit included only changes to DAG code, push the change to Astro without building a new project image.
- If the change included changes to project configurations, rebuild your project image and deploy it to Astro.
```

Reviewer: Removed the passive language here, as I think we can be explicit that the action does all of this stuff.

> - Check out your repository.

Author: ```suggestion
- Checks out your repository.
```

> - Check whether your commit only changed DAG code.

Author: ```suggestion
- Checks whether your commit only changed DAG code.
```

> - Optional. Test DAG code with pytest.

Author: ```suggestion
- Optional. Tests DAG code with pytest.
```

> - If the commit included only changes to DAG code, push the change to Astro without building a new project image.

Author: ```suggestion
- If the commit included only changes to DAG code, pushes the change to Astro without building a new project image.
```

> - If the change included changes to project configurations, rebuild your project image and deploy it to Astro.

Author: ```suggestion
- If the change included changes to project configurations, rebuilds your project image and deploys it to Astro.
```

## Usage

> Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in **Deploy code example**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the action, you must set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow to the Key ID and secret for an existing [Deployment API key](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set these environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in **Workflow file example**. 
```

> Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in ** Deploy code example**. 

Author: ```suggestion
Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in **Deploy code example**. 
```

> Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. The environment variables define how to log in to Astro and what Deployment to deploy changes to. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in the **Examples** section. 

Author: ```suggestion
Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. The environment variables define how to log in to Astro and what Deployment to deploy changes to. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in ** Deploy code example**. 
```

> Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. The environment variables define how to log in to Astro and what Deployment to deploy changes to. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in ** Deploy code example**. 

Author: ```suggestion
Deploy Action is intended to be used with [Deployment API keys](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). To use Deploy Action, you need to set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow. Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set the environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in ** Deploy code example**. 
```

> To use the action, you must set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow to the Key ID and secret for an existing [Deployment API key](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set these environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in **Workflow file example**. 

Author: ```suggestion
To use the action, you must set the `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variables in your GitHub Actions workflow to the Key ID and secret for an existing [Deployment API key](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys). Astronomer recommends using GitHub Actions secrets to set these environment variables. An example workflow script is provided in **Workflow file examples**. 
```

## Configuration options

The following table lists the optional configuration options for Deploy Actions.

| Name | Default | Description |
| ---|---|--- |
| `dag-deploy-enabled` | `false` | When set to `true`, DAG files are deployed only when the DAG files are changed. Only set this to `true` when DAG-only deploys are activated on the Deployment you are deploying to. |
| `root-folder` | `.` | Specifies the path to to Astro project folder containing the 'dags' folder | 
| `parse` | `false` | When set to `true`, DAGs are parsed for errors before deployment |
| `pytest` | `false` | When set to `true`, pytests are run before deployment |

> | `pytest-file` | (all tests run) | Specifies the custom pytest files to run with the pytest command. For example, you could specify `/tests/test-tags.py`
> | `force` | `false` | When set to `true`, your code is force deployed without testing or parsing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `pytest-file` | (all tests run) | Specifies the custom pytest files to run with the pytest command. For example, you could specify `/tests/test-tags.py`|
| `force` | `false` | When set to `true`, your code is force deployed without testing or parsing |
```

| `image-name` |  | Specifies a custom, locally built image to deploy |

> ## Deploy code example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Workflow file examples
```

## Workflow file examples

> In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys.

Reviewer 3: code is pushed from a main branch only if the workflow file here is used. This does not happen automatically by the action. maybe we should say something about this here?

> The following example shows how to use Deploy Action to deploy your code to an Astro Deployment whenever code is pushed to the main branch of your projects repository. The `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variable values come from your [Deployment API key](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys).

Author: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use Deploy Action to deploy your code to an Astro Deployment whenever code is pushed to the main branch of your projects repository. The `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variable values are defined by your [Deployment API key](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys).
```

> The following example shows how to use Deploy Action to deploy your code to an Astro Deployment whenever code is pushed to the main branch of your projects repository. The `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` environment variable values are defined by your [Deployment API key](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is duplicative with the definition of the action itself, plus the information that we include earlier. I think it's pretty self explanatory.

> In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys.

Author: ```suggestion
In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys. Code is only pushed from a main branch when the workflow file is used.
```

> In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys. Code is only pushed from a main branch when the workflow file is used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys. This workflow example deploys code when it is pushed into the main branch.
```

> In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed in both image and DAG deploys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys.
```

## Configuration options

The following table lists the optional configuration options for Deploy Actions.

| Name | Default | Description |
| ---|---|--- |
| `dag-deploy-enabled` | `false` | When set to `true`, DAG files are deployed only when the DAG files are changed. Only set this to `true` when DAG-only deploys are activated on the Deployment you are deploying to. |
| `root-folder` | `.` | Specifies the path to to Astro project folder containing the 'dags' folder | 
| `parse` | `false` | When set to `true`, DAGs are parsed for errors before deployment |
| `pytest` | `false` | When set to `true`, pytests are run before deployment |
| `pytest-file` | (all tests run) | Specifies the custom pytest files to run with the pytest command. For example, you could specify `/tests/test-tags.py`|
| `force` | `false` | When set to `true`, your code is force deployed without testing or parsing |

> | `image-name` |  | Specifies a custom, locally built image to deploy |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `image-name` |  | Specifies a custom, locally built Docker image to deploy |
```

## Workflow file examples

> In the following example, DAG-only deploys are enabled and DAG files are parsed for both image and DAG deploys. This workflow example deploys code when it is pushed into the main branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the GitHub action deploys code to Astro with DAG-only deploys enabled. This example assumes that you have one Astro Deployment and one branch. When a change is merged to the `main` branch, your Astro project is deployed to Astro. DAG files are parsed on every deploy and no pytests are ran.
```

        dag-deploy-enabled: true
        parse: true
```

> ### Change the DAG folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use the following topics to further configure the action based on your needs.

### Change the DAG folder
```

    dag-folder: /example-dags/dags/
```

### Run Pytests

> In the following example, the pytest located at `/tests/test-tags.py` runs before the image is deployed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the pytest located at `/tests/test-tags.py` runs before deploying to Astro.
```

    pytest-file: /tests/test-tags.py
```

### Ignore parsing and testing

> In the following example, the parse and pytests are skipped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, `force` is enabled and both the DAG parse and pytest processes are skipped.
```

    force: true
```

> ### Use a custom image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy a custom Docker image
```

> In the following example, a custom image is built and deployed to an Astro Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, a custom Docker image is built and deployed to an Astro Deployment.
```
